---
title: "Orthogonal Time Frequency Space Modulation: Waveform for Future Wireless Networks"
collection: talks
type: "Presentation (together with Prof. Weijie Yuan and Prof. Zhiqiang Wei)"
permalink: /talks/2022-06-19-talk
venue: "IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC) Spring 2022"
date: 2022-06-19
location: "Helsinki, Finland (virtual)"
---


Future wireless networks are expected to support ubiquitous connectivity to a wide range of emerging applications operating in hostile environments, spanning from autonomous cars to low-earth-orbit satellites, and underwater acoustic communications. The strong multipath, high delay and Doppler features in those hostile environments can impose great challenges for reliable wireless communications. Consequently, the conventional OFDM modulation may fail due to the high dynamical channel fluctuations. Recently proposed orthogonal time frequency space (OTFS) modulation has provided a different perspective of waveform design in contrast to the time-frequency signal processing paradigm. OTFS has shown promising performance over various channels and its advantages has been widely evident from both academic and industry perspectives. This tutorial aims to provide the state-of-art of OTFS with specific focuses on its fundamentals, advanced designs, performance analysis, and applications.

This tutorial will firstly overview the background and fundamentals of OTFS and delay Doppler domain signal processing. Then the research progress on this topic will be introduced, which consists of 3 technical parts: 1) window designs and channel estimation for OTFS, 2) OTFS detection and performance analysis, and 3) OTFS-enabled integrating communications and sensing. Finally, we will conclude the tutorial by summarizing the future directions and open problems.
